In Unit 3 of this course
you will learn about implementing
Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS,
to beautify the code you created
in the previous unit.
Separating the content and structure
from the presentation
allows you to make aesthetic changes to your pages
without having to wade through miles of code.
In fact, the process of changing a site's
appearance using CSS can be downright simple.
In this unit, you’ll learn to use CSS
to change the color...
And how to change the typography,
or how the text is presented on the web pages...
including font family...
font size...
line height...
and character spacing...
to name only a few of the many possibilities.
When you apply a new style to an HTML element
that change will affect each instance
of that HTML element in your web page.
But what if you only want to change one instance
of an HTML element?
You can do that by adding an id attribute
to that element in your HTML code...
then in your CSS, add a style definition
specifically for that id...
And if you want to change several instances of a
particular HTML element, but not all of them,
you do that by adding a class attribute
to each of the HTML elements you want to change.
Then in your CSS, add a style definition
specifically for that class...
You will also learn how to use pseudo-class
selectors to add unique styles to elements
under certain circumstances, such as when a
mouse user is hovering over that element...
Or when a keyboard user is focused on an
element by tabbing onto it.
And finally, you will learn to use CSS to control
layout and position of elements on your page.
For example, remember the navigation menu you
added to your portfolio in Unit 2?
Well, that didn't look much like a navigation menu,
did it?
It looked like an unordered list of links,
which is of course exactly what it is.
With CSS you can turn off the bullets
on your list items...
Float the list items beside each other horizontally...
Add a right margin to each list item
to create some separation...
And lots more.
The fun thing about CSS is it never hurts to try
a variety of properties and see what effect they have.
If you don't like the effect, try something else.
Take a look at this page.
By simply selecting a new style sheet, notice how
it looks like an entirely different web site now,
when in fact the HTML content wasn’t altered
in any way.
The only thing that changed is the appearance,
and that was done entirely with CSS.
The more you play with CSS, the more you'll
come to appreciate that stylesheets can have a
profound impact on the way your website looks
and feels.